{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
\cocoascreenfonts1{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\margb1800\margt1800
\deftab720
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs22 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec0 	
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Strictly speaking we did not develop a technique to compress a molecule database. Rather we developed a molecule specific clustering technique. Molecules can be converted to their corresponding outline but the outline cannot be converted back into a molecule except by dint of stored references. \
	Representing molecules as labeled, weighted graphs is a common if slightly flawed way of representing molecules. It cannot convey the differences between cis and trans molecules or between resonance structures but it still provides a large amount of information.\
	We developed several different clustering techniques based off of representing molecules as unlabeled graphs; each yielding progressively better performance. In every case we removed hydrogens from molecules before producing graph representations. Hydrogens tend to be chemically uninteresting, vastly increase computational complexity, and reveal a great deal of the information we were trying to abstract by clustering. \
	For each clustering technique the same approach was used to compress the database. As molecules were read from file they would be converted to their cluster representation (which varied according to technique) the structures would then be sorted by a preliminary hash into groups based on their size and order*. Finally the group would be searched for any structure that was isomorphic to the query structure. If no isomorphic structure was found the query structure would be added to the group in its own right. If an structure isomorphic to the query structure was found it was given a pointer to the molecule from which the query structure had been generated.\
	Our earliest and most generic technique to cluster molecules was to convert their representation as labeled, weighted graphs to unweighted, unlabeled graphs. With this technique molecules like cyclopentane, cyclopentene , and THF would be clustered together. Molecules with tails like, like methoxycyclohexane, would be put  into  a separate cluster, and so on. On its own this technique produced somewhat lackluster results. Even on large tests we had about 50% cluster representatives to actual molecules. Large complex molecules were almost universally solely represented.\
	The second clustering technique we tried was to remove tails from molecules\'96 long chains of acyclic carbons. This would allow us to cluster molecules like cyclohexane and methoxycyclohexane together. \
	After the initial graph representation was produced from a molecule every vertex of degree one was removed from the graph. This process was repeated iteratively until convergence leaving   only vertices that were part of cycles. Molecules that were acyclic (many alkanes, alkenes, and alkynes) were represented as a sparse graph with all original vertices but no edges. \
	This technique produced significantly larger clusters. There were approximately 15% cluster representatives to actual molecules\
	Building off this success we developed a third technique. Any vertex or edge that was not part of a simple cycle was removed. With this technique Bicyclohexyl and Dicyclohexylamine would be assigned to the same cluster. Edges that were not part of a simple cycle were identified using a modified version of depth first search. \
	***This technique is still in testing***\
\
	Once all molecules in the original database were assigned to clusters an SDF file of the cluster representatives (with Carbons representing all vertices and single bonds representing all edges) was produced. A metadata file tracking the pubchem IDs of all the original molecules from their cluster was also produced.
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\pard\tqr\tx9360\pardeftab720\pardirnatural

\f1\fs20 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\up0 \nosupersub \ulnone \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 * The hash was added for a rudimentary increase in performance. It was designed so that it could not hash two isomorphic molecules to different positions. That is: it could not produce a false negative.}